This is a remake of the original Road Rash from the early nineties. For those who have not played the original, you are competing against thirteen other "Road Rashers" who will stop at nothing to win 1st, 2nd, or 3rd place. During the race, you have two options available to you: you can either do your best to cross the finish line, or use your weapon to bring the Rashers to the ground if they are giving you trouble. If you do the latter, your opponents will do the same to you during the next race that takes place. 

There are five circuits to race: The City, The Peninsula, Pacific Highway, Sierra Nevada, and Napa Valley. Some of these circuits are dangerous. As well as the obstacles and traffic that you encounter along the way, there are also cops driving on bikes who will arrest you if you happen to crash or stop your bike near them, and you have to pay a fine in order to get in any more races. Your bike will be wrecked if you crash too many times, and you have to pay for damages, but the amount you have to pay depends on the bike that you are riding. Once you have completed the first five circuits, you have to race them again another four times - but at a much more difficult level. Manage to win all five circuits on all levels, and you win the Road Rash cup.

There are about five bikes to choose from, which are divided into three groups. Rat, Sport, and Super. You start the first level with a Rat bike, but as you proceed through the levels, it is important to pick bikes from a different bike class.

If you have no plans to win the Road Rash cup, you can choose the game's Thrash mode. The difference between this and the other mode is that there is no money involved (ie: you are not allowed to buy bikes), and you are competing against fourteen opponents. And if you wreck your bike or you get busted, you have to start all over again. Regardless of the mode you pick, you will always start in the last place.

The remake also contains FMV movies that usually depict the outcome of the races, as well as limited songs performed by various recording artists, including Soundgarden, Therapy?, Monster Magnet, and Swervedriver. These songs can be changed on-the-fly via the game's options menu.
