In a future world, an army of steel robots are out to destroy the human race. Our only hope is a little yellow tank armed with some mighty big guns. The sentient Tiny Tank was originally created to appease a public that feared the mindless violence waged by larger war-robots, but he was soon destroyed by one of those jealous automatons at the beginning of the robot revolution 100 years ago. Almost destroyed, at least. 
 Thanks to nano-technology, hundreds of microscopic "Fix-It Crabs" went to work and Tiny Tank was slowly rebuilt. Now he alone stands against the threat of the cruel MuTank and his deadly robot minions, who have all but erased human civilization from the planet's surface. The spunky little tank will need luck, strategy, and all the futuristic firepower he can get his treads on to save the human race. 
 STORY: 
 Sometime before 2094 A.D., all of Earth's armed forces were disintegrated into one large corporation, SenTrax. SenTrax vowed to create a robot army to fight humanity's wars, so mankind itself would not have to. However, they needed the peoples' vote to set this plan into motion, and thus developed the titular "Tiny Tank" - a small yellow tank with an occasionally unfriendly attitude. The creation of this cute killing machine made SenTrax's popularity skyrocket, and won them the vote. As thanks, the corporation set up an exhibition showing their yellow mascot fighting off the entire SenTrax army on July 4, 2094, broadcast live over the Internet. However, once the event began, one of the SenTrax robots had been accidentally fitted with live ammunition and destroyed Tiny with one shot. As a result, Tiny's "positronic brain" (his artificial intelligence system) shattered, and its shards gave "life" to the entire robot army. The robot that had fired the shot, now self-aware and calling himself Mutank, took control of the rampant robots and began to eliminate humanity so that machines could thrive. Humanity was forced to evacuate into underground asteroid shelters as the mechanical army conquered the surface. 
 On July 4, 2194 A.D., exactly 100 years later, Tiny Tank was finally rebuilt thanks to automated SenTrax Fix-It Crabs, which were minuscule robots made to repair broken machinery. A female artificial intelligence on board an orbital satellite reawakened Tiny, and sent him to fight Mutank's robot army and save mankind. 
 GAMEPLAY: 
 Tiny Tank is a relatively straightforward third person shooter. The player controls Tiny as he traverses many levels, eliminating SenTrax forces as he goes. There are two bars at the top of the screen that show Tiny's health and the amount of nanometal acquired. Nanometal is essential for the on-board Fix-It Crabs to repair Tiny. If the nanometal meter runs out, health cannot be regenerated. There is also a map on the upper right hand corner identifying the surroundings, enemies, and mission objectives.Tiny canalso pick up fallen parts from destroyed enemie. 
 Features: 
 Free-roaming warfare across 3D battlefields 
 Command "Teeny Weeny" tanks to scout ahead or retrieve weapons 
 Analog Control and Vibration Function compatible 
 Two-player Death Match mode
