Pac-Land is a horizontally-scrolling platform game set in the cartoon world of the game's title. A fairy has lost her way and needs Pac-Man to help her get back to her home of Fairyland. Pac-Man, with the fairy safely hidden beneath his hat, must run and jump through the colourful world until he reaches and enters the magical door to Fairyland. Upon being rescued, the fairy gives Pac-Man a pair of magical shoes for his trip back home. These enable him to jump wherever he wants, without the need for a platform to jump from. This effectively means Pac-Man can 'sky-jump' back home if he so wishes. 
 
Directional buttons make Pac-Man walk left and right and it's possible to make him run by tapping the desired directional button twice. Pac-Man is pursued by his ever-present enemies in the form of five ghosts - Pinky, Inky, Blinky, Clyde and Sue. Pac-Man must avoid the ghosts and other deadly objects that populate the levels. As with previous games in the series, a small number of 'Powerpills' appear. Eating a Powerpill makes Pac-Man temporarily invincible and turns the ghosts purple and vulnerable to being eaten. On some stages, Pac-Man must use a springboard to jump over large ponds by leaping from the springboard and rapidly moving left and right while in the air. 
 
The game's stages are called 'trips', with players able to start on any one of the first five. Each trip made up of four rounds (three rounds to reach Fairyland and one round to return home) with a short interval between each one. The objective in all trips is to get the fairy safely back to Fairyland then return home to Pac-Man's family. The majority of the trip involves moving from left to right, avoiding various obstacles such as the enemy ghosts, water spurts and quicksand traps. The journey home, however, scrolls right to left. 
 
Each stage must be completed within a set time limit and if the player runs out of time before finishing a round, Sue (the purple ghost) will speed up considerably and kill Pac-Man. At the end of each round, players are awarded bonus points based on how much of the time limit remains. On each stage, cherries and other items can be collected for extra points. There are a total of 8 different trips in the game, totalling 32 levels. After the 8th trip, the 9th trip is a repeat of the 5th trip, with level 33 effectively being level 17, with an increased difficulty level.
