In the future, many military forces are dependent on huge mech robots, called Wanzers (Walking Panzers) for combat. At Huffman Island, located in the the pacific ocean, wanzers are deployed by both the USN (United States of the New Continent) and the OCU (Oceana Community Union), who dispute ownership over the island.  One night, the OCU forces stage a covert recon mission on a facility located in Larcus, a USN-held territory and weapons facility. Lead by a soldier named Roid, this mission was entirely unofficial and violated the peace treaty. During the mission, USN forces lead by Commander Driscoll appeared and ambushed the OCU soldiers. During the combat, Roid's fiance, Karen is killed and the USN facility is blown up; placing the blame on the OCU. This became known as the "Larcus Incident" and the OCU denied all knowledge of it's soldiers actions. Ultimately it would be a leading cause to the second Huffman War. 

One year later, the war is underway and Huffman island is under provisional control of the OCU, but with a weakened military unable to defend against USN attacks. The soldiers involved involved in the Larcus Incident have all been discharged and disgraced. Roid spends his time fighting as a gladiator in the Wanzer fighting arena before being approached by a mysterious man. Colonel Olson has found out about Roid's history and wants him to command a mercenary unit he is assembling on behalf of the OCU, dubbed "Carrion Crow". Convincing Roid that Driscoll is still out there on the island, Roid agrees.

Front Mission is a turn-based strategy RPG played from an isometric perspective. Players progress in the story through large strategic battles involving multiple units and cutscenes between them. At certain places, usually towns, the player can visit multiple locations including bars and shops, and talk to people. Shops are also found to purchase new weaponry, parts and make repairs. In combat, each Wanzer robot is a seperate unit and, has a large variety of weapons and attack styles depending on what's equipped. Units get experience for defeating enemies and also for using various techniques. The more an attack is used, the more powerful it becomes.
